{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red133\green133\blue133;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c59216\c59216\c59216;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Once when I was a little boy I received as a gift a toy cement mixer. It was made of wood except for its wheels\'97axles\'97which, as I remember, were thin metal rods. I\'92m ninety per cent sure it was a Christmas gift. I liked it the same way a boy that age likes toy dump trucks, ambulances, tractor-trailers, and whatnot. There are little boys who like trains and little boys who like vehicles\'97I liked the latter.\cb1 \
\cb3 It was (\'93it\'94 meaning the cement mixer) the same overlarge miniature as many other toy vehicles\'97about the size of a breadbox. It weighed three or four pounds. It was a simple toy\'97no batteries. It had a colored rope, with a yellow handle, and you held the handle and walked pulling the cement mixer behind you\'97rather like a wagon, although it was nowhere near the size of a wagon. For Christmas, I\'92m positive it was. It was when I was the age where you can, as they say, \'93hear voices\'94 without worrying that something is wrong with you. I \'93heard voices\'94 all the time as a small child. I was either five or six, I believe. (I\'92m not very good with numbers.)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 I liked the cement mixer and played with it as much as or more than I played with the other toy vehicles I owned. At some point, several weeks or months after Christmas, however, my biological parents led me to believe that it was a magic and/or highly unusual cement mixer. Probably my mother told me this in a moment of adult boredom or whimsy, and then my father came home from work and joined in, also in a whimsical way. The magic\'97which my mother likely reported to me from her vantage on our living room\'92s sofa, while watching me pull the cement mixer around the room by its rope, idly asking me if I was aware that it had magical properties, no doubt making sport of me in the bored half-cruel way that adults sometimes do with small children, playfully telling them things that they pass off to themselves as \'93tall tales\'94 or \'93childlike inventions,\'94 unaware of the impact those tales may have (since magic is a serious reality for small children), though, conversely, if my parents believed that the cement mixer\'92s magic was real, I do not understand why they waited weeks or months before telling me of it. They were a delightful but often impenetrable puzzle to me; I no more knew their minds and motives than a pencil knows what it is being used for. Now I have lost the thread. The \'93magic\'94 was that, unbeknown to me, as I happily pulled the cement mixer behind me, the mixer\'92s main cylinder or drum\'97the thing that, in a real cement mixer, mixes the cement; I do not know the actual word for it\'97rotated, went around and around on its horizontal axis, just as the drum on a real cement mixer does. It did this, my mother said, only when the mixer was being pulled by me and only, she stressed, when I wasn\'92t looking. She insisted on this part, and my father later backed her up: the magic was not just that the drum of a solid wood object without batteries rotated but that it did so only when unobserved, stopping whenever observed. If, while pulling, I turned to look, my parents sombrely maintained, the drum magically ceased its rotation. How was this? I never, even for a moment, doubted what they\'92d told me. This is why it is that adults and even parents can, unwittingly, be cruel: they cannot imagine doubt\'92s complete absence. They have forgotten.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The point was that months were henceforward spent by me trying to devise ways to catch the drum rotating. Evidence bore out what they had told me: turning my head obviously and unsubtly around always stopped the rotation of the drum. I also tried sudden whirls. I tried having someone else pull the cement mixer. I tried incremental turns of the head while pulling (\'93incremental\'94 meaning turning my head at roughly the rate of a clock\'92s minute hand). I tried peering through a keyhole as someone else pulled the cement mixer. Even turning my head at the rate of the hour hand. I never doubted\'97it didn\'92t occur to me. The magic was that the mixer seemed always to know. I tried mirrors\'97first pulling the cement mixer straight toward a mirror, then through rooms that had mirrors at the periphery of my vision, then past mirrors hidden such that there was little chance that the cement mixer could even \'93know\'94 that there was a mirror in the room. My strategies became very involved. I was in kindergarten and home half the day. The seriousness with which I tried must have caused my parents no little anguish of conscience. My father had not yet even received tenure; we were barely middle class, and lived in a rented house whose carpets were old and thin\'97the mixer made a noise as I pulled it. I begged my mother to take photographs as I pulled the mixer, staring with fraudulent intensity straight ahead. I placed a piece of masking tape on the drum and reasoned that if the tape appeared in one photo and not in the other this would provide proof of the drum\'92s rotation. (Video cameras had not yet been invented.)\cb1 \
\cb3 During Talk Time, before bed, my father sometimes told me stories of his own childhood adventures. He, an intellectual, had been, according to his stories, the sort of child who set traps for the Tooth Fairy (pyramids of tin cans at the door and windows of his room, string tied from his finger to the tooth below his pillow so that he would wake when the Fairy tried to take the tooth) and other \'93mythical\'94 figures of childhood, such as Santa Claus. (Talk Time meant fifteen minutes of direct conversation\'97not stories or songs\'97with a parent as I lay tucked into bed. Four nights per week Talk Time was with my mother and three nights with my father. They were very organized about it.) I was, at this age, unfamiliar with Matthew 4:7, and my father, a devout atheist, was in no way alluding to Matthew 4:7 or using the tales of his fruitless childhood traps as parables or advice against my trying to \'93test\'94 or \'93defeat\'94 the magic of the cement mixer. In retrospect, I believe that my father was charmed by my attempts to \'93trap\'94 the mixer\'92s drum rotating because he saw them as evidence that I was a chip off the block of ad-hoc intellectual mania for empirical verification. In fact, nothing could have been farther from the truth. As an adult, I realize that the reason I spent so much time trying to \'93catch\'94 the drum rotating was that I wanted to verify that I could not. If I had ever been successful in outsmarting the magic, I would have been crushed. I know this now. My father\'92s tales of snares for the Easter Bunny or strings for the Tooth Fairy often made me feel sad, and when I cried over them sometimes my parents guiltily believed that I was crying over my frustration at not being able to catch sight of the rotating drum. I\'92m positive that this caused them anguish. In fact, I was crying with sadness, imagining how devastated my father would have felt as a child had he been successful in trapping the Tooth Fairy. I was not, at the time, aware that this was why the Talk Time stories made me sad. What I remember feeling was an incredible temptation to ask my father a question as he delightedly described these traps, and at the same time a huge and consuming but amorphous and nameless fear that prevented my asking the question. The conflict between the temptation and my inability to ask the question (owing to a fear of ever seeing pain on my father\'92s pink, cheerful, placid face) caused me to weep with an intensity that must have caused my parents\'97who saw me as an eccentric and delicate child\'97no little guilt over their \'93cruel\'94 invention of the cement mixer\'92s magic. Under various pretexts, they bought me an exceptional number of toys and games in the months following that Christmas, trying to distract me from what they saw as a traumatic obsession with the toy cement mixer and its \'93magic.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 ADVERTISEMENT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The toy cement mixer is the origin of the religious feeling that has informed most of my adult life. The question, which I (sadly) never did ask, was what my father proposed to do with the Tooth Fairy if he were ever successful in catching it. Possibly, though, another cause for the sadness was that I realized, on some level, that my parents, when they watched me trying to devise schemes for observing the drum\'92s rotation, were wholly wrong about what they were seeing\'97that the world they saw and suffered over was wholly different from the childhood world in which I existed. I wept for them far more than any of the three of us knew at the time.\cb1 \
\cb3 oth House Director Pat Montesian and Don Gately\'92s A.A. sponsor like to remind him how the new Ennet House resident Geoffrey Day could be an invaluable teacher for him, Gately, as Staff.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93So then at forty-six years of age I came here to learn to live by clich\'e9s\'94 is what Day says to Charlotte Treat right after Randy Lenz asked what time it was at 0825. \'93To turn my will and life over to the care of clich\'e9s. One day at a time. Easy does it. First things first. Ask for help. Thy will not mine be done. It works if you work it. Grow or go. Keep coming back.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Poor old Charlotte Treat, needlepointing primly beside him on the old vinyl couch that just came from Goodwill, purses her lips. \'93You need to ask for some gratitude.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \'93Oh no but the point is that I\'92ve already been fortunate enough to\'a0
\f2\i receive
\f0\i0 \'a0gratitude.\'94 Day crosses one leg over the other in a way that inclines his whole little soft body toward her. \'93For which, believe you me, I\'92m grateful. I cultivate gratitude. That\'92s part of the system of clich\'e9s I\'92m here to live by. An attitude of gratitude. A grateful drunk will never drink. I know the actual clich\'e9 is \'91A grateful heart will never drink,\'92 but since organs can\'92t properly be said to imbibe and I\'92m still afflicted with just enough self-will to decline to live by utter non sequiturs, as opposed to just good old clich\'e9s, I\'92m taking the doubtless hazardous liberty of light amendment. Albeit grateful amendment, of course.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 Charlotte Treat looks over to Gately for some sort of help or Staff enforcement of dogma. The poor bitch is clueless. All of them are clueless, still. Gately reminds himself that he too is probably still mostly clueless, even after all these hundreds of days. \'93I Didn\'92t Know That I Didn\'92t Know\'94 is another of these slogans that look so shallow for a while and then all of a sudden drop off and deepen like the lobster waters off the North Shore. As Gately fidgets his way through daily\'a0a.m. meditation he always tries to remind himself daily that this is all an Ennet House residency is supposed to do: buy these poor yutzes some time, some thin pie slice of abstinent time, till they can start to get a whiff of what\'92s true and deep, almost magic, under the shallow surface of what they\'92re trying to do.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \'93I cultivate it assiduously. I do special gratitude exercises at night up there in the room.\'a0
\f2\i Gratitude-ups
\f0\i0 , you could call them. Ask Randy over there if I don\'92t do them like clockwork. Diligently. Sedulously.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Well it\'92s true is all,\'94 Treat sniffs. \'93About gratitude.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 Everybody else except Gately, who is lying on the old other couch opposite them, is ignoring this exchange, watching an old movie whose tracking is a little messed up so that staticky stripes eat at the picture\'92s bottom and top. The Ennet House Director, Pat M., encourages new Staff to think of residents they\'92d like to bludgeon to death as teachers of patience, tolerance, self-discipline, and restraint. She can always tell when Gately\'92s exercising tolerant restraint, because of the slight facial tic that betrays his effort of will, and makes it a point to praise his willingness to grow and change when the cheek starts to spasm.\cb1 \
\cb3 Day isn\'92t done. \'93One of these exercises is being grateful that life is so much\'a0
\f2\i easier
\f0\i0 \'a0now. I used sometimes to think. I used to think in long compound sentences with subordinate clauses and even the odd polysyllable. Now I find I needn\'92t. Now I live by the dictates of macram\'e9 samplers ordered from the back-page ad of an old\'a0
\f2\i Reader
\f0\i0 \'92
\f2\i s Digest
\f0\i0 \'a0or\'a0
\f2\i Saturday Evening Post
\f0\i0 . Easy Does It. Remember to Remember. But for the Grace of God. Turn It Over. Terse, hard-boiled. Good old Norman Rockwell\'96Paul Harvey wisdom. I walk around with my arms out straight in front of me and recite these clich\'e9s. In a monotone. No inflection necessary. Could that be one? Could that be added to the clich\'e9 pool? No inflection necessary? Too many syllables, probably.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 Poor old Charlotte Treat, all of nine weeks clean, is looking primmer and primmer. She glances again over at Gately, lying on his back, taking up the living room\'92s whole other sofa, one sneaker up on the sofa\'92s square worn-fabric arm, his eyes almost closed. Only House Staff get to lie on the couches.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Denial,\'94 Charlotte finally says, \'93is not a river in Egypt.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Hows about the both of you shut the fuck up,\'94 says Emil Minty.\cb1 \
\cb3 Geoffrey (not Geoff, Geoffrey) Day has been at Ennet House eight days. He came in from Roxbury\'92s infamous Dimock Detox, where he was the only white person, which Gately bets must have been broadening for him. Day has a squished blank smeared flat face, one requiring great effort to like, and eyes that are just starting to lose the nictitated glaze of early sobriety. Gately tries to remind himself that Day is a newcomer and still very raw. A red-wine-and-Quaalude man who finally nodded out in late October and put his Saab through the window of a Malden sporting-goods store and then got out and proceeded to browse until Boston\'92s finest came and got him. He\'92d taught something horseshit-sounding like social historicity or historical sociality at some Jr. college up the Expressway in Medford and came in saying in his Intake interview that he also manned the helm of a scholarly quarterly. Word for word, the House Manager had said: \'93manned the helm\'94 and \'93scholarly quarterly.\'94 His Intake indicated that Day\'92d been in and out of a blackout for most of the last several years, and his wiring is still as they say pretty frayed. His detox at Dimock, where they barely have the resources to slip you a Librium if you start to D.T., must have been real grim, because Geoffrey D. now alleges it never happened: his story is he just strolled into Ennet House on a lark one day from his home five-plus miles away in Malden and found the place too hilariously egregious to want to leave.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 It\'92s the newcomers with some education that are the worst, according to Staffer Eugenio M. They identify their whole selves with their head, and the Disease makes its command headquarters in the head. Day wears chinos of indeterminate hue, brown socks with black shoes, and shirts that the House Manager had described on the Intake form as \'93East-European-type turtleneck shirts.\'94 Day\'92s now on the vinyl couch with Charlotte Treat after breakfast in the Ennet House living room with a few of the other residents who either aren\'92t working or don\'92t have to be at work early, and with Gately, who\'92d pulled a night shift down in the front office till 0400, then got temp-relieved by Johnette Foltz so he could go to work down at the Shattuck Shelter till 0700, and then came and hauled ass back up and took back over so Johnette F. could go off to her N.A.-convention thing with a bunch of N.A. kids in what looked like a VW bus without a hood over the engine, and is now, Gately, covering Johnette\'92s half of the day shift until somebody else gets here, and is trying to unclench and center himself inside by tracing the cracks in the paint of the living room ceiling with his eyes. Gately often feels a terrible sense of loss, narcotics-wise, in the\'a0a.m., still, even after all this drug-free time. His A.A. sponsor over at the White Flag group says some people never get over the loss of what they\'92d thought was their one true best friend and lover; they just have to pray daily for acceptance and patience and the brass danglers to move forward through the grief and loss, to wait for time to harden the scab. The sponsor doesn\'92t give Gately one bit of shit for feeling bad: on the contrary, he commends Gately for his candor in breaking down and crying like a baby and finally telling him about it one\'a0a.m., the sense of terrible loss. It\'92s a myth no one misses it. Their particular Substance. Shit, you wouldn\'92t need to give it up if you didn\'92t miss it. You just have to Turn It Over, the emptiness and loss, Keep Coming, show up, pray, Ask for Help. Gately rubs his eye. Simple advice like this does seem like a lot of clich\'e9s\'97Day\'92s right about how it seems. Yes, and if Geoffrey Day keeps on steering by the way things seem to him, he\'92s a dead man sure. Gately\'92s already watched dozens come through here and leave early and some of them die. If Day ever gets lucky and breaks down, finally, and comes to the office late at night to clutch at his pant cuff and blubber and beg for help, Gately\'92ll get to tell Day that the clich\'e9d directives of recovery are a lot more deep and hard to actually do. To try and live by instead of just say. But he\'92ll only get to say it if Day comes and asks. Personally, Gately gives Day like a month at the outside before he\'92s back tipping his hat to parking meters. Except who is Gately to judge who\'92ll end up getting the Gift of the program v. who won\'92t, he needs to remember. He tries to feel like Day is teaching him patience. It takes great patience and tolerance not to want to punt the guy out into Commonwealth Ave. and open up his bunk to somebody that really wants it, desperately, the Gift. Except who is Gately to think he can know who wants it and who doesn\'92t, deep down. Gately\'92s arm is behind his head, up against the sofa\'92s other arm. The VCR is on to something violent Gately neither sees nor hears. He can sort of turn his attention on and off like a light. Even when he was a resident here, he\'92d had this pro housebreaker\'92s ability to screen input, to do sensory triage. It was one reason he\'92d been able to stick out his nine residential months with twenty-one other newly detoxed housebreakers, hoods, whores, fired execs, subway musicians, beer-bloated construction workers, vagrants, cirrhotic car salesmen, bunko artists, mincing pillow biters, North End hard guys, Avon ladies, pimply kids with nose-rings, denial-ridden housewives and etc., all jonesing and head-gaming and desperate and grieving and basically whacked-out and producing non-stopping output 24/7.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 ADVERTISEMENT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 At some point in here Day says, \'93So bring on the lobotomist, bring him on I say!\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 Except that Gately\'92s counsellor when he was a resident here, Eugenio Martinez, one of the volunteer alumni counsellors, a one-eared former boiler-room bunko man and now a cellular-phone retailer who\'92d gone through the House under the original pre-Pat founder and now had about like ten years clean, Eugenio M. had lovingly confronted Gately early on about his special burglar\'92s selective attention and about how it could be dangerous, because how can you be sure it\'92s you doing the input screening and not the Spider. Eugenio had called addiction the Spider instead of the Disease, and dispensed his advice in terms of like for example \'93Feeding the Spider\'94 v. \'93Starving the Spider\'94 and so on. He\'92d called Gately into the House Manager\'92s back office and said what if screening his attention\'92s input turned out to be Feeding the Spider and what about an experimental unscreening of input for a while. And Gately had said he\'92d do his best to try and had come back out and tried to watch a Celtics game while two resident pillow biters from off the Fenway were on the couch having this involved conversation about some third fag having to go in and get the skeleton of some kind of fucking rodent removed from inside his butthole. The unscreening experiment had lasted half an hour. This was right before Gately got his ninety-day chip and wasn\'92t exactly wrapped real tight, still. Ennet House this year is nothing like the freak show it was when Gately went through. Gately has been Substance-free for four hundred and twenty-one days today.\cb1 \
\cb3 Charlotte Treat, with her carefully made-up, ruined face, is watching the static-striped movie on the VCR while she needlepoints something. Conversation between her and Geoffrey D. has mercifully petered out. Day is scanning the room for somebody else to engage and piss off so he can prove to himself he doesn\'92t fit in here and stay separated off isolated inside himself and maybe get them so pissed off there\'92s a beef and he gets bounced out, Day, and it won\'92t be his fault. You can almost hear the Spider of his Disease chewing away inside his head. Emil Minty, Randy Lenz, and Bruce Green are also in the room, sprawled in spring-shot chairs, lighting one gasper off the end of the last, their posture the don\'92t-fuck-with-me slouch of the streets that here makes their bodies\'92 texture somehow hard to distinguish from that of the chairs. Nell Gunther is sitting at the long table in the doorless dining room that opens out right off the old donated VCR and monitor\'92s pine stand, whitening under her nails with a manicure pencil amid the remains of something she\'92s eaten that involved serious syrup. Joe S. is also in there, way down by himself at the table\'92s far end, trying to saw at a waffle with a knife and fork attached to the stumps of his wrists with Velcro bands. A long-ago former C.P.A., Joe Smith is forty-five and looks seventy, has almost all-white hair that\'92s waxy and yellow from close-order smoke, and finally got into Ennet House last month after a summer in the Cambridge City Shelter. Joe S. is making his fiftieth-odd stab at some kind of durable sobriety in A.A. Once devoutly R.C., he\'92s had crippling trouble with Faith in a Loving God ever since the R.C. Church apparently granted his wife an annulment in \'9291 after fifteen years of marriage. Then for several years a rooming-house drunk, which in Gately\'92s view is like one step up from a homeless-person-type drunk. Joe S. got jumped and rolled and beaten half to death in Cambridge in the storm on Xmas Eve of last year and left to freeze in an alley, and ended up losing his hands and feet. Whenever residents Doony Glynn and Wade McDade are together in a room and Joe S. comes teetering in on his blocky prosthetic shoes, G. and McD. will stand up and shout together: \'93Hail Joe, Asleep in the Snow!\'94 Repeated threats of Restriction and worse have not broken them of this practice. Doony Glynn\'92s also been observed telling Joe Smith things like that there\'92s some new guy coming in and moving into the Disabled Room with Joe who\'92s totally minus arms or legs or even a head and communicates by farting in Morse code. Which sally earned Glynn three days\'92 Full House Restriction and a week\'92s extra House Chore for what Johnette Foltz described in the Staff Log as \'93XSive Crulty.\'94 There is a vague intestinal moaning in Gately\'92s right side. Watching Joe Smith smoke a Benson & Hedges by holding it between his stumps with his elbows out like a man with pruning shears is an adventure in fucking pathos, as far as Gately\'92s concerned. And forget about what it\'92s like trying to watch Joe S. try to light a match.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gately, who\'92s been on Live-In Staff here four months now, believes Charlotte Treat\'92s devotion to needlepoint is suspect. All those needles. In and out of all that thin sterile-white cotton stretched drum-tight in its round frame. The needle makes a kind of thud and squeak when it goes in the cloth. It\'92s not much like the soundless pop and slide of a real cook-and-shoot. But still. She takes such great care.\cb1 \
\cb3 Gately wonders what color he\'92d call the ceiling if forced to call it a color. It\'92s not beige and it\'92s not gray. The brown-yellow tones are from high-tar gaspers; a pall hangs up near the ceiling even this early in the new sober day. Some of the drunks and trank-jockeys stay up most of the night, joggling their feet and chain-smoking, even though there\'92s no movies or music allowed after midnight. Don G. has that odd House Staffer\'92s knack, already, after four months, of seeing everything significant in both living and dining rooms without really looking. Emil Minty, a hard-core smack-addict punk here for reasons nobody can quite yet pin down, is in an old mustard-colored easy chair with his combat boots up on one of the standing ashtrays, which is tilting not quite enough for Gately to tell him to watch out, please. Minty\'92s orange Mohawk and the shaved skull around it are starting to grow out brown, which is just not a pleasant sight in the morning at all. The other ashtray on the floor by his chair is full of the ragged new moons of bitten nails, which has got to mean that Esther Thrale, who Gately ordered to bed at 0230, was back down here in the chair having at her nails again the second Gately left to go mop up shit at the Shattuck Shelter. Another gurgle and abdominal chug. When he\'92s up all night Gately\'92s stomach gets all acidy and tight, from either the coffee, maybe, or just the staying up. Emil M.\'92s been sleeping in the streets since he was maybe sixteen, Gately can tell: he\'92s got that sooty complexion homeless guys have where the soot has insinuated itself into the dermal layer. And the big-armed driver for Leisure Time Ice, the quiet kid, Bruce Green, a garbage-head all-Substance-type kid, maybe twenty-one, face very slightly smunched in on one side, wears sleeveless khaki shirts, used to live in a trailer in that apocalyptic Enfield trailer park out near Allston; Gately likes Green because he seems to have sense enough to keep his yap shut when he\'92s got nothing important to say, which is basically all the time. The tattoo on the kid\'92s right tricep is a spear-pierced heart over the hideous name\'a0mildred bonk, who Bruce G. told him was a ray of living light and a dead ringer for the late lead singer of The Fiends in Human Shape and his dead heart\'92s one love ever, and who took their daughter and left him this summer for some guy who\'92d told her he ranched fucking longhorn cows east of Atlantic City, N.J. He\'92s got, even by Ennet House standards, major-league sleep trouble, Green, and he and Gately play cribbage sometimes in the wee dead hours, a game Gately picked up in jail. Joe S. is now hunched in a meaty coughing fit, his elbows out and forehead purple. Gately can see everything without moving his eyes at all.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 ADVERTISEMENT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 And then Lenz. Randy Lenz is a small-time organic-coke dealer who wears sport coats rolled up over his big forearms and is always checking his pulse on the inside of his wrists. It\'92s come out that Lenz is of keen interest to both sides of the law; this past May he\'92d apparently all of a sudden lost all control and holed up in a Charlestown motel and freebased most of a whole hundred grams he\'92d been fronted by a suspiciously trusting Brazilian in what Lenz didn\'92t know was supposed to have been a D.E.A. sting operation in the South End. Having screwed both sides in what Gately secretly views as a delicious fuckup, Randy Lenz has, since May, been the most wanted he\'92s probably ever been. He is seedily handsome in the way of pimps and low-level coke dealers, muscular in the way certain guys\'92 muscles look muscular but can\'92t really lift anything, with complexly gelled hair and the little birdlike head movements of the deeply vain. One forearm\'92s hair has a little hairless patch, which Gately knows all too well spells knife owner, and if there\'92s one thing Gately\'92s never been able to stomach it\'92s a knife owner, little swaggery guys who always queer a square beef and come up off the ground with a blade so you have to get cut to take it away from them. Lenz is teaching Gately a restrained compassion for people you pretty much want to beat up on sight. And it\'92s obvious to everybody except Pat Montesian\'97whose odd gullibility in the presence of human sludge, though, Gately needs to try to remember, was one of the reasons why he himself had got into Ennet House\'97that Lenz is here mostly just to hide. He rarely leaves the House except under compulsion, avoids all windows, and travels nightly to the required A.A./N.A. meetings in a disguise that makes him look like Cesar Romero after a terrible accident; and then he always wants to walk home solo afterward, which is not encouraged. Lenz\'92s leg never stops joggling; Day claims it joggles even worse in sleep. Lenz is seated low in the northeasternmost corner of an old fake-velour love seat that he\'92s jammed in the northeasternmost corner of the living room. Randy Lenz has a strange compulsive need to be north of everything, and possibly even northeast of everything, and Gately has no clue what it\'92s about but observes Lenz\'92s position routinely for his own interest and files.\cb1 \
\cb3 Second-month resident Charlotte Treat has violently red hair. As in hair the color of like a red crayon. She doesn\'92t have to work the usual outside menial job, because she has some strain of the Virus or maybe A.R.C. Former prostitute, reformed. Why do prostitutes when they get straight always try and get so prim? It\'92s like long-repressed librarian ambitions come flooding out. Charlotte T. has a cut-rate whore\'92s hard, half-pretty face, her eyes lassoed with shadow around all four lids. Her also with a case of the dermal-layer sooty complexion. The thing about Treat is how her cheeks are deeply pitted in deep trenches that she packs with foundation and tries to cover over with blush, which along with the hair gives her the look of a mean clown. The ghastly wounds in her cheeks look for all the world like somebody got at her with a woodburning kit at some point in her career path. Gately would rather not know.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Don Gately is almost twenty-nine and sober and just huge. One shoulder blade and buttock pooch out over the side of a sofa that sags like a hammock. Lying there gurgling and inert with eyes half shut and a tolerant if ticcy smile. Gately looks less built than poured, with the smooth immovability of an Easter Island statue. It would be nice if intimidating size weren\'92t one of the factors in a male graduate\'92s getting offered the male Live-In Staff job here, but there you are. He has a massive square head made squarer-looking by the Prince Valiant-ish haircut he tries to maintain himself in the mirror, to save money. Room and board aside\'97plus of course the opportunity for Service\'97he makes very little money as an Ennet House Staffer, and is paying off restitution schedules in three different district courts. He has the fluttery white-eyed smile now of someone who\'92s holding himself just over the level of doze. Pat Montesian isn\'92t due in until 0900, and he can\'92t go to sleep until she shows, because the House Manager has driven Jennifer Belbin to a court appearance downtown and Gately\'92s the only Staffer here; Foltz, the other Live-In, is at a Narcotics Anonymous convention in Hartford for the long weekend. Gately personally is not hot on N.A.: so many relapses and unhumble returns, so many drug stories told with undisguised bullshit pride, so little emphasis on Service or serious Message; all those people in leather and metal, preening. Rooms full of Randy Lenzes, all hugging each other, pretending they don\'92t miss narcotics. Rampant vulnerable-newcomer fucking. There\'92s a difference between abstinence and recovery, Gately knows. Though who is Gately to judge what works for who. He just knows what seems like it works for him, today. A.A.\'92s tough Boston love, the White Flag group, old guys with suspendered bellies and white crewcuts and geologic amounts of sober time who\'92ll take your big square head off if they sense you\'92re getting complacent or chasing tail or forgetting that your life still hangs in the balance every fucking day. White Flag newcomers so crazed and sick they can\'92t sit, and have to pace at the meeting\'92s rear, like Gately when he first came. Retired old kindergarten teachers in polyresin slacks and a pince-nez who bake cookies for the weekly meeting and relate from behind the podium how they used to blow bartenders at closing for just two more fingers in a paper cup to take home against the morning\'92s needled light. Gately, albeit an oral-narcotics man from way back, has committed himself to A.A. He drank his fair share, too, he figures, after all.\cb1 \
\cb3 House Director Pat M. is due in at 0900 and has application interviews with three people, 2 F and 1 M, who better be showing up soon; and Gately will get up and answer the door when they don\'92t know enough to just come in and will say Welcome and get them a cup of coffee if he judges them able to hold it. He\'92ll take them aside and tip them off to be sure to pet Pat M.\'92s dogs during the interview. The dogs\'92ll be sprawled all over the front office, sides heaving, writhing and biting at themselves. He\'92ll tell the applicants it\'92s a proved fact that if Pat\'92s dogs like you, you\'92re in. Pat M. has directed Gately to tell applicants this, and then if they do actually pet the dogs\'97two hideous white golden retrievers with suppurating skin afflictions, plus one has grand-mal epilepsy\'97it\'92ll betray a level of desperate willingness that Pat says is just about all she goes by, deciding.\cb1 \
\cb3 A nameless cat oozes by on the broad windowsill above the back of the fabric couch. Animals here come and go. Graduates adopt them or they just disappear. Their fleas tend to remain. Gately\'92s intestines gurgle. Boston\'92s dawn this morning was chemically pink. The nail parings in the ashtray on the floor are, he sees, way too big to be fingernail bits. These bitten arcs are broad and thick and a deep autumnal yellow. They are not from fingers. He swallows hard.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 ADVERTISEMENT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl630\sa420\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Gately\'92d tell Day how even if they are just clich\'e9s, clich\'e9s are: (a) soothing, and (b) proclaim a common sort of common sense, and (c) license the universal assent that drowns out silence. And fourth, silence is deadly, pure Spider-food, if you\'92ve got the Disease. The older White Flaggers say you can spell the Disease \'93dis-ease,\'94 which sums the basic situation up nicely. Gately should probably also tell him that the only real ultimate relief from the Disease is God, as in finding and cultivating some kind of personally comfortable and worshipable Higher Power; but Gately still can\'92t bring himself to say this kind of thing out loud. Pat has a meeting at the Bureau of Substance Abuse Services in Government Center at noon she needs to be reminded about, since she can\'92t read her own handwriting. Gately envisions going around having to find out who\'92s biting their fucking toenails in the living room and putting the disgusting toenail bits in the ashtray at like 0500. House Regs prohibit bare feet anyplace downstairs.\cb1 \
\cb3 There\'92s a pale-brown water stain on the ceiling over Day and Treat the exact shape of Florida. Randy Lenz has issues with Geoffrey Day because Day is educated and a teacher and mans a journal\'92s helm. This threatens the self-concept of Lenz, who sees himself as a kind of hiply sexy artist-dash-intellectual. Small-time dealers never think of themselves as just small-time dealers. For Occupation on his Intake form Lenz had put \'93free lance writer.\'94 And he makes a big show of the fact he reads. For his first sober week here in August he\'92d sat all day smoking and joggling in the northeast corner of the living room, holding open a gigantic medical dictionary and pretending to be reading medical words until Glynn and McDade started busting his balls about never turning the page. At which juncture he quit reading and started talking, making everybody nostalgic for when he just read. Johnette F. had put in the September Log that Lenz would, quote, \'93get on your very last nerve,\'94 which Gately had underlined in a different-color ink. Plus Geoffrey D. has issues with Randy L., too. The dislike is mutual. There\'92s a certain way they don\'92t look at each other. And so now of course they\'92re mashed in together in the tiny three-man bedroom, since last week three guys in one night missed curfew and came in without one normal-sized pupil between them and all refused Urines and got discharged on the spot, and so Day got moved up in his first week from the five-man newcomers\'92 room to the three-man. Seniority comes quick around here. Lenz and Day: a beef may be brewing. Day\'92ll try to goad Lenz into a beef that\'92ll be public enough so he doesn\'92t get hurt but does get bounced out, and then he can leave treatment and go back to Chianti and ludes and make out like the relapse is Ennet House\'92s and never have to confront himself or his Disease. To Gately, Geoffrey D. is like a wide-open textbook on the Disease. One of Gately\'92s jobs is to keep an eye on what\'92s possibly brewing among residents and let Pat or the House Manager know and to try to smooth things down in advance if possible.\cb1 \
\cb3 The ceiling\'92s color could be called dun, if forced. Someone has farted; no one knows just who, but this isn\'92t like a normal adult place where everybody coolly pretends a fart didn\'92t happen. Here everybody has to make their little comment.\cb1 \
\cb3 Time is passing. Ennet House reeks of passing time. It is the humidity of early sobriety, hanging and palpable. You can hear ticking in clockless rooms here. Gately changes the angle of one sneaker, puts his other arm behind his head. His head has real weight and pressure. Randy Lenz\'92s obsessive compulsions include the need to be north, a fear of disks, a tendency to take his own pulse, a pathological fear of every form of timepiece, and a constant need to know the time with great precision.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Day man, you got the time maybe real quick?\'94 Lenz. For the third time in half an hour. Patience, tolerance, reserve, compassion. Gately remembers his own first few straight months here: he\'92d felt the sharp edge of every second that went by. And the freak-show dreams. Nightmares beyond the worst D.T.s you\'92d ever heard of. One reason to have a night-shift Staffer down in the front office is so somebody\'92s there for the residents to talk at when\'97not if, when\'97when the detox nightmares ratchet them out of twisted sheets at like 0300. Nightmares about relapsing and getting high, about not getting high but having everybody think you\'92re high, about getting high with your alcoholic mom and then killing her with a baseball bat. Whipping it out for a court-ordered Urine and starting up and flames come shooting out. Getting high and bursting into flames. Having a waterspout shaped like an enormous syringe suck you up inside. A vehicle explodes in a bloom of enhanced flame on the VCR, its hood up like an old pop tab.\cb1 \
}